<DOC>
<DOCNO> http://www.cs.purdue.edu/gsb/meeting_minutes:2004-2005 </DOCNO>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"> <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" dir="ltr"> <head> <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" /> <title> meeting_minutes:2004-2005 [Graduate Student Board] </title> <meta name="generator" content="DokuWiki Release 2007-06-26b" /> <meta name="robots" content="index,follow" /> <meta name="date" content="2007-07-29T23:28:30-0400" /> <meta name="keywords" content="meeting_minutes,2004-2005" /> <link rel="search" type="application/opensearchdescription+xml" href="/gsb/lib/exe/opensearch.php" title="Graduate Student Board" /> <link rel="start" href="/gsb/" /> <link rel="contents" href="/gsb/meeting_minutes:2004-2005?do=index" title="Index" /> <link rel="alternate" type="application/rss+xml" title="Recent Changes" href="/gsb/feed.php" /> <link rel="alternate" type="application/rss+xml" title="Current Namespace" href="/gsb/feed.php?mode=list&amp;ns=meeting_minutes" /> <link rel="alternate" type="text/html" title="Plain HTML" href="/gsb/_export/xhtml/meeting_minutes:2004-2005" /> <link rel="alternate" type="text/plain" title="Wiki Markup" href="/gsb/_export/raw/meeting_minutes:2004-2005" /> <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" type="text/css" href="/gsb/lib/exe/css.php?s=all" /> <link rel="stylesheet" media="screen" type="text/css" href="/gsb/lib/exe/css.php" /> <link rel="stylesheet" media="print" type="text/css" href="/gsb/lib/exe/css.php?s=print" /> <script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8" src="/gsb/lib/exe/js.php?edit=0&amp;write=0" ></script> <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/gsb/lib/tpl/sidebar/images/favicon.ico" /> </head> <body> <div class="dokuwiki"> <div class="stylehead"> <div class="header"> <div class="pagename"> [[<a href="/gsb/meeting_minutes:2004-2005?do=backlink" >meeting_minutes:2004-2005</a>]] </div> <div class="logo"> <a href="/gsb/" name="dokuwiki__top" id="dokuwiki__top" accesskey="h" title="[ALT+H]">Graduate Student Board</a> </div> <div class="tagline"> </div> <div class="clearer"></div> </div> <div class="bar" id="bar__top"> <div class="bar-left" id="bar__topleft"> <form class="button" method="post" action="/gsb/meeting_minutes:2004-2005"><div class="no"><input type="hidden" name="do" value="edit" /><input type="hidden" name="rev" value="" /><input type="submit" value="Show pagesource" class="button" accesskey="v" title="Show pagesource [ALT+V]" /></div></form> <form class="button" method="get" action="/gsb/meeting_minutes:2004-2005"><div class="no"><input type="hidden" name="do" value="revisions" /><input type="submit" value="Old revisions" class="button" accesskey="o" title="Old revisions [ALT+O]" /></div></form> </div> <div class="bar-right" id="bar__topright"> <form class="button" method="get" action="/gsb/"><div class="no"><input type="hidden" name="do" value="recent" /><input type="submit" value="Recent changes" class="button" accesskey="r" title="Recent changes [ALT+R]" /></div></form> <form action="/gsb/" accept-charset="utf-8" class="search" id="dw__search"><div class="no"><input type="hidden" name="do" value="search" /><input type="text" id="qsearch__in" accesskey="f" name="id" class="edit" title="[ALT+F]" /><input type="submit" value="Search" class="button" title="Search" /><div id="qsearch__out" class="ajax_qsearch JSpopup"></div></div></form>&nbsp; </div> <div class="clearer"></div> </div> <div class="breadcrumbs"> Trace: <span class="bcsep">&raquo;</span> <span class="curid"><a href="/gsb/meeting_minutes:2004-2005" class="breadcrumbs" title="meeting_minutes:2004-2005">2004-2005</a></span> </div> </div> <div id='sidebar'> <p> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:house.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/home" class="wikilink1" title="home">Home</a> <br/> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:lightbulb.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/about" class="wikilink1" title="about">About</a> <br/> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:comments.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/contact" class="wikilink1" title="contact">Contact</a> <br/> </p> <p> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:group.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/officers" class="wikilink1" title="officers">Officers</a> <br/> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:script.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/meeting_minutes:current" class="wikilink1" title="meeting_minutes:current">Minutes</a> <br/> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:calendar.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/events" class="wikilink1" title="events">Events</a> <br/> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:camera.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/photos" class="wikilink1" title="photos">Photos</a> <br/> </p> <p> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:tux.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/mentoring" class="wikilink1" title="mentoring">Mentoring</a> <br/> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:book.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/survival_guide:main" class="wikilink1" title="survival_guide:main">Survival Guide</a> <br/> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:car.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/travel_grants" class="wikilink1" title="travel_grants">Travel Grants</a> <br/> </p> <p> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:link.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/links" class="wikilink1" title="links">Links</a> <br/> <img src="/gsb/_media/icons:money.png?w=&amp;h=&amp;cache=cache" class="media" alt="" /> <a href="/gsb/sponsors" class="wikilink1" title="sponsors">Sponsors</a> <br/> </p> <!-- cachefile /home/gsb-wiki/htdocs/data/cache/5/57d0ca2e91605f855946f92fe89b179f.xhtml used --> </div> <div class="page_with_sidebar"> <!-- wikipage start --> <div class="toc"> <div class="tocheader toctoggle" id="toc__header">Table of Contents</div> <div id="toc__inside"> <ul class="toc"> <li class="level1"><div class="li"><span class="li"><a href="#gsb_2004-2005_meeting_minutes" class="toc">GSB 2004-2005 Meeting Minutes</a></span></div> <ul class="toc"> <li class="level2"><div class="li"><span class="li"><a href="#april_20_2005" class="toc">April 20, 2005</a></span></div></li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"><span class="li"><a href="#march_29_2005" class="toc">March 29, 2005</a></span></div></li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"><span class="li"><a href="#november_11_2004" class="toc">November 11, 2004</a></span></div></li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"><span class="li"><a href="#october_21_2004" class="toc">October 21, 2004</a></span></div></li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"><span class="li"><a href="#september_30_2004" class="toc">September 30, 2004</a></span></div></li></ul> </li></ul> </div> </div> <h1><a name="gsb_2004-2005_meeting_minutes" id="gsb_2004-2005_meeting_minutes">GSB 2004-2005 Meeting Minutes</a></h1> <div class="level1"> </div> <h2><a name="april_20_2005" id="april_20_2005">April 20, 2005</a></h2> <div class="level2"> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Senator </div> <ul> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Chetak described the work of a senator</div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> monthly formal meeting with senators from other departments of Purdue </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> on issues like smoking, parking </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> may become a committee member in <acronym title="Purdue Graduate Student Government">PGSG</acronym> </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Main job: convey messages to students, like sending emails to students in your department and collect feedback </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Jacque proposes that taking of cross-department courses may be considered as credited courses, and this issue may be raised in the next senator meeting. </div> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tech Talk </div> <ul> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> CS G66 </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> 6:30 - 8:00 tomorrow </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Need a few people at 6:10 to prepare pizza and set up tables </div> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Election </div> <ul> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Umut: Chair and co-chari may have too much power </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Ethan: Delegation of power may be put as a side note to the constitution </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Prof. Fredrickson proposes election to be held in April to avoid the need of the new president to do “clean-up” work in August </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Abhinav proposes the following core officers to be elected in April first, while others can be elected later in August: </div> <ul> <li class="level3"><div class="li"> Chair, treasurer, Grad com representatives, undegrad com representatives, senator, faculty search representatives, webmaster </div> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Faculty Search </div> <ul> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Ossama: not enough support from grad students, should propose group represenatives to be responsible to ask students from the group to attend (this is in constitution already) </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Prof. Fredrickson explains the role of students in faculty search is to provide input for their comments on the candidate </div> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Graduating Event </div> <ul> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Every student should bring something to the time capsule </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> The extra <acronym title="Graduate Student Board">GSB</acronym> shirts are to be given free </div> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Misc. </div> <ul> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> The final exam pizza time is not decided yet. </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> It is not clear how to re-elect officers for replacement </div> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> </div> <h2><a name="march_29_2005" id="march_29_2005">March 29, 2005</a></h2> <div class="level2"> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> This is what most of us agreed on and we have assigned one or more duties to every one. </div> <ul> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Reynold and Ossama - Faculty Candidate interviews(still 12 left) </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Umut and Luke - CS Graduation event on April 29 and Finals week pizza </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Wenchang - Microsoft Tech talk on thursday april 21 </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Abhinav - Everything </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Marina and Wei - Run Elections </div> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Elections - We have set a deadline for April 11 to be the last nomination day, by April 15 we should have a good idea about new board. Wei is talking with Dr. Gorman and Renate to get the data that we need to decide on the constituion of next <acronym title="Graduate Student Board">GSB</acronym>. They might do a information session, but its their job advertising it and if we need a voting Changjiu and Nick will help to set it online. </div> </li> </ul> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Faculty Candidate Interviews - We have passed a law today, and that is that the person representing a group will have to attend both the talk and <acronym title="Graduate Student Board">GSB</acronym> meeting time with the candidate along with Faculty Search Reps. Also, it will be the job of that group&#039;s rep to popularize this talk to his group mates. Faculty search committee member will let the group rep know about which talk is when. The genral mass spamming will also happen.</div> </li> </ul> </div> <h2><a name="november_11_2004" id="november_11_2004">November 11, 2004</a></h2> <div class="level2"> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> This meeting was held in CS111 on 2004-11-11 at 17:00 </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Members Present : Chetak Sirsat, Rupak Sanjel, Changjiu Xian, Wenchang Liu, Ossama Younis, Reynold Cheng, Marina Bykova, Dan Noland, Abhinav Jain, Umut Topkara, and Wei Jiang </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Abhinav read the agenda </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Discussion of Tomasz Czajka&#039;s non-credit class to train a programming team to compete in contests. A proposal needs to be written. Dan and Abhinav agreed to help with this. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Discussion of the research builtin: Abhinav has found has 5 entries, Marina 5, Umut 1. The networks and languages groups have yet to report. Chetak was chosen to be the editor/compiler of the builtin. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Discussion of the academic jobs panel: 30 USD per speaker was alloted for thank you gifts. It will be at 15:30 in G66 on the 22nd. Cookies and soda will be served as refreshments. Renate will help us with the flyers. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Discussion of ACM&#039;s Grad School Panel: Rupak and Dan will represent <acronym title="Graduate Student Board">GSB</acronym>. ACM will handle the details. Nov 16 at 19:00 in UNIV 101</div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Discussion of T-Shirt Sales: Should we have a preorder time? We need to use Purdue printers. Changjiu will set up a poll for the best design on the web site. Sell on December 3rd?!?! Dan was chosen to research printing costs. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Report from the undergrad feedback forum: TA&#039;s should hold office hours via Instant Messenger. EE270 should be retained as a science course in the undergrad curriculum. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> New Responsibilities: Corporate Rep = Wenchang &rarr; Work with Jean Jackson and industry sponsors. New Graduate student government senator = Chetak </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Is it possible to have an alumni representative?</div> </li> </ul> </div> <h2><a name="october_21_2004" id="october_21_2004">October 21, 2004</a></h2> <div class="level2"> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> This meeting on October 21, 2004 was held at CS 111 at 5pm. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> It was attended by Abhinav Jain, Marina Bykova, Umut Topkara, Reynold Cheng, Wei Jiang, Ossama Younis, Christian Grothoff, Changjiu Xian, Eric Bryant and Wenchang Liu. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Chetak Sirsat, Daniel Noland, Rupak Sanjel and Md-Abdul Khan did not attend this meeting. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> It was decided that <acronym title="Graduate Student Board">GSB</acronym> will have a graduate student meeting for helping in organizing events for social lunch on October 26, 2004. Marina will head that meeting. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> The question of making a video was raised and it was decided that we will have a contest and people who want to take part in it should let us know. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Jairav Desai from ACM came and asked for our help in tech talks and our support in making events popular. Involve graduate and undergraduate students in some activities. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Umut will talk to HTM lounge to see if we could have coffee hours there. There is a possibility of having a monthly food hour and not having coffee hour at all. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Marina, Eric, Abhinav and Wei will work on election procedure formulation. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Abhinav mentioned about president dinner and possibility of having Diana Horn talk about human computer interaction. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> We also talked about possibility of awarding travel grants, and it was decided that we write a proposal for the potention corporate sponsors. Chritian and Reynold are looking in this regard. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> It was also decided that we have a faculty panel advising to be graduates on job search. Ossama and Reynold are incharge of this and we will have this panel sometime on either Novemeber 18 or 19. </div> </li> </ul> </div> <h2><a name="september_30_2004" id="september_30_2004">September 30, 2004</a></h2> <div class="level2"> <ul> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Election report as well as the BOSO account card were filled out.</div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Discussion was begun concerning the amendment of the <acronym title="Graduate Student Board">GSB</acronym> election procedures. There was some discussion of if board members should represent students or their individual labs. Professor Frederickson commented on the difficulty of finding a nice mixture of students from various backgrounds. Dan Noland raised the question of weather there should be a fixed number of seats on the board. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Professor Frederickson on apportionment: the previous <acronym title="Graduate Student Board">GSB</acronym> was approximately 1 representative for every 10 students. Cerias and DB were the largest groups, followed by languages, There were a couple of catch all groups. Over time the size of research groups will change. Fellowships and unsupported students should also be considered. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Discussion on formation of a committee to research election amendments was discussed. It was decided that the committee would be chosen over email.</div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Jain constitution changes: There should be an option for officers to step down for a time during difficult circumstances. It was decided that a constitution committee would be chosen over email. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Jain suggested that we may need to help with the end of semester/holiday party. Do we need to send a representative to help Renate. Marina : could we have some “computer science”/geeky games or activities. Marina Should we add something to the coffee hours, have a topic? </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Umut was elected to be the social chair. Marina, nolandda, and Rupak volunteered to help on the social committee. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> The callout/mixer/general meeting was discussed. Pizza with the department head? Picnic? Pizza event 17:00-19:00. Room suggestions CS G66, MATH 175, CL50, CS 111, UNIV217.</div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Web Page updates</div> <ul> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Umut : could we use WebCT to hold minor elections/get feedback.</div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Jain : Should we help to form Qualifiers study groups. </div> </li> <li class="level2"><div class="li"> Should we recommend particular courses on the website: No!</div> </li> </ul> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Jain : Weekly Coffee reservations CS101 coffee hours. Should we continue. Umut - There is some effort toward acquiring an espresso machine for the lounge. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Jain : Do we need an office?</div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Professor Frederickson : Academic job search advice session?</div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Marina : We don&#039;t have any new professors this year. </div> </li> <li class="level1"><div class="li"> Rupak : could we get someone from thethe personal committee come and give some insight. </div> </li> </ul> </div> <!-- wikipage stop --> </div> <div class="clearer">&nbsp;</div> <div class="stylefoot"> <div class="meta"> <div class="user"> </div> <div class="doc"> meeting_minutes/2004-2005.txt &middot; Last modified: 2007/07/29 23:28 by nandrysc </div> </div> <div class="bar" id="bar__bottom"> <div class="bar-left" id="bar__bottomleft"> <form class="button" method="post" action="/gsb/meeting_minutes:2004-2005"><div class="no"><input type="hidden" name="do" value="edit" /><input type="hidden" name="rev" value="" /><input type="submit" value="Show pagesource" class="button" accesskey="v" title="Show pagesource [ALT+V]" /></div></form> <form class="button" method="get" action="/gsb/meeting_minutes:2004-2005"><div class="no"><input type="hidden" name="do" value="revisions" /><input type="submit" value="Old revisions" class="button" accesskey="o" title="Old revisions [ALT+O]" /></div></form> </div> <div class="bar-right" id="bar__bottomright"> <form class="button" method="get" action="/gsb/meeting_minutes:2004-2005"><div class="no"><input type="hidden" name="do" value="login" /><input type="submit" value="Login" class="button" title="Login" /></div></form> <form class="button" method="get" action="/gsb/meeting_minutes:2004-2005"><div class="no"><input type="hidden" name="do" value="index" /><input type="submit" value="Index" class="button" accesskey="x" title="Index [ALT+X]" /></div></form> <a class="nolink" href="#dokuwiki__top"><input type="button" class="button" value="Back to top" onclick="window.scrollTo(0, 0)" title="Back to top" /></a>&nbsp; </div> <div class="clearer"></div> </div> </div> </div> <div class="footerinc"> <a href="/gsb/feed.php" title="Recent changes RSS feed"><img src="/gsb/lib/tpl/sidebar/images/button-rss.png" width="80" height="15" alt="Recent changes RSS feed" /></a> <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.0/" rel="license" title="Creative Commons License"><img src="/gsb/lib/tpl/sidebar/images/button-cc.gif" width="80" height="15" alt="Creative Commons License" /></a> <a href="https://www.paypal.com/xclick/business=andi%40splitbrain.org&amp;item_name=DokuWiki+Donation&amp;no_shipping=1&amp;no_note=1&amp;tax=0&amp;currency_code=EUR&amp;lc=US" title="Donate"><img src="/gsb/lib/tpl/sidebar/images/button-donate.gif" alt="Donate" width="80" height="15" /></a> <a href="http://www.php.net" title="Powered by PHP"><img src="/gsb/lib/tpl/sidebar/images/button-php.gif" width="80" height="15" alt="Powered by PHP" /></a> <a href="http://validator.w3.org/check/referer" title="Valid XHTML 1.0"><img src="/gsb/lib/tpl/sidebar/images/button-xhtml.png" width="80" height="15" alt="Valid XHTML 1.0" /></a> <a href="http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/check/referer?profile=css3" title="Valid CSS"><img src="/gsb/lib/tpl/sidebar/images/button-css.png" width="80" height="15" alt="Valid CSS" /></a> <a href="http://wiki.splitbrain.org/wiki:dokuwiki" title="Driven by DokuWiki"><img src="/gsb/lib/tpl/sidebar/images/button-dw.png" width="80" height="15" alt="Driven by DokuWiki" /></a> <!-- <rdf:RDF xmlns="http://web.resource.org/cc/" xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"> <Work rdf:about=""> <dc:type rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/Text" /> <license rdf:resource="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.0/" /> </Work> <License rdf:about="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.0/"> <permits rdf:resource="http://web.resource.org/cc/Reproduction" /> <permits rdf:resource="http://web.resource.org/cc/Distribution" /> <requires rdf:resource="http://web.resource.org/cc/Notice" /> <requires rdf:resource="http://web.resource.org/cc/Attribution" /> <prohibits rdf:resource="http://web.resource.org/cc/CommercialUse" /> <permits rdf:resource="http://web.resource.org/cc/DerivativeWorks" /> <requires rdf:resource="http://web.resource.org/cc/ShareAlike" /> </License> </rdf:RDF> --> </div> <div class="no"><img src="/gsb/lib/exe/indexer.php?id=meeting_minutes%3A2004-2005&amp;1327902608" width="1" height="1" alt="" /></div> </body> </html> </html>
</DOC>
